What is a linked list?
As the name suggests, it's a list that is linked.
All right, Andre, that's not very helpful.
Can you actually explain it to us?
All right.
Well, I have a little diagram here for you.
A list or in this case, as we'll find out soon, a singly linked list.
Contains a set of notes and think of nodes as these blocks.
Both red and green block together is a note.
These notes have two elements the value of the data you want to store, in this case, the number five
and a pointer to the next node in line.
So you can see the green block here points to the next node.
The first node is called the head.
And the last node is called the tail.
Now, depending on some people.
Some people like to call the tail anything that is after the head.
So including this block over here.
But I prefer the term tail referring to the very last note.
Finally, link lists are what we call null terminated, which signifies that it's the end of the list.
So we know that this is the tail node because it points to no, there's nothing coming after it.
Now pointer is a term that you hear a lot in programming and computer science.
And we have a video coming up discussing what a pointer actually is, but to focus just on length lists
for now.
You can see that it's a very simple data structure.
It's simply an element that links to the next element that links to the next element.
And it keeps going, keeps going, keeps going until the last element that points to no.
You can have them sorted, you can have them unsorted and you can have notes pretty much contain any
sort of data type.
But let's take a look at some pseudocode.
Up until now, we learned how arrays work.
And here I can just create a simple array, let's say a basket that contains our grocery list.
We have apples, we have grapes.
The most delicious of the fruits, and we have pears.
Now, how can we have a basket that's not an array, but a linked list?
Well, we can just say that our link list and this is not actual code, just pseudocode.
I can say that our link list will contain apples that then points to grapes.
That then points to pears.
And these little arrows are essentially pointers saying apples to grapes, to pears.
Remember, this isn't actually code.
I'm just creating a nice diagram for you.
A more accurate diagram might be something like this where we have apples in memory of memory space
of, let's say a nine, four, seven, and this node points to the next node, which is grapes that
is at this location in memory.
And then that node points to pears that is at this location in memory.
And because this is the end of the list, the tale it points to, no.
Now you're thinking to yourself, Andre, how come you're not just coding this in JavaScript?
Just show us how link lists work in JavaScript and stop with this pseudocode gibberish.
Well, JavaScript doesn't actually come with link lists built in.
Remember what I said?
Different languages have different tools available to them.
Languages like Java have linked lists, while JavaScript doesn't come prebuilt with link lists.
But luckily for us, we can build one.
And this is why you typically do in programming.
When you don't have something, you build it.
And we have the building blocks to be able to build a link list, and that's what we're going to do
as part of an exercise coming up.
But before we code our own link list and create our own linked list data structure.
Let's do a fun little exercise.